
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# An evidence synthesis approach for combining different data sources on entomological efficacy of insecticides for indoor residual spraying

#### Background

Malaria public health interventions are tested for entomological impact
using experimental hut trials in different seasonal, ecological and
endemic settings. In most but not all cases, data are collated as
aggregated counts of potential outcomes from mosquito feeding attempts
given the presence of an insecticidal intervention. Comprehensive data
are more rarely available. These data can be appropriately combined to
infer potential impact of vector control products across different
settings over time.

#### Methods

Aggregated and comprehensive data from a meta-analysis of the impact of
Actellic 300CS (Syngenta), an indoor residual spray (IRS) product, used
on wall surfaces to kill mosquitoes and reduce malaria transmission,
were analysed using a series of statistical models to understand the
benefits and limitations of each.

#### Results

Many more data are available in aggregated format (N = 23 datasets)
relative to comprehensive format (N = 3 datasets). The evidence
synthesis model was able to predict the probability of mosquitoes dying
or surviving and blood-feeding most robustly. Generating odds ratios
from the correlated Bernoulli random sample indicates that when
mortality and blood-feeding are positively correlated, as exhibited in
our data, the number of successfully fed mosquitoes will be
under-estimated. Analysis of either data set alone is problematic
because aggregated data require making an assumption of independence and
there are few and variable data in the comprehensive format.

#### Conclusions

We developed an approach to combine sources from expensive trials to
maximise the inference that can be made from such data. Bayesian
evidence synthesis enables inference from multiple datasets
simultaneously to give a more informative result and highlight conflicts
between sources. Advantages and limitations of these models are
discussed.
